# bootcamp2021c01 - Understanding the API Economy
## What is the API Economy?
The objective of Bootcamp 2021 is to prepare sofware developers for the API Economy (Application Programming Interface Economy). APIs are software interfaces that allow once separate software systems to seamlessly and easily talk to each other. The innovative power of APIs has lead to the realization that software as a service (SaaS) applications can be built by combining APIs built by specialized API providers. That, in turn, has created the API Economy, which empowers developers to specialize and monetize their skills and domain knowledge.

A taxi booking SaaS app, for example, might combine a mapping SaaS API, communication SaaS API, and billing SaaS API, each from different providers, with their own UX layered on top. This makes it easy to launch new services without having to build everything from scratch. This makes it easier for all participants to develop unique products, services and functionality quickly and with less cost.

In the API economy a developer may have different roles. It may be a SaaS developer or API provider. A API provider can also develop on top of other specialized APIs, thus creating layers of APIs. This creates an API economy where developers charge each other for the APIs built by them. The API provider charges others for using his APIs, and at the same time pays other providers to use their APIs. The SaaS app developers who uses all these APIs bills the end-customer for the service. This exchange of value is what makes an API economy.

Ideally, the developer who uses SaaS APIs wants to be charged a usage based subscription fee, not a fixed monthly subscription. This usage based subscription fee has been made possible by serverless cloud technologies. Serverless is also being called Cloud 2.0.

The rise of of API Economy has created a new kind of software company i.e. an API-First Company. A company, which develops software not for the end-users as its main customer, but other developers who uses it as a component to build applications. The Panacloud platform provides the means by which developers and entrepreneurs can build their API-First Unicorn startups.

The API Economy levels the playing field for everyone from the smallest developers to the largest companies. However, it also creates many challenges. First, often there is no direct contact between the API provider and the developer who utilizes it, it can be hard to know which API to build with what functionality. Second, it is difficult to know which APIs are available and which API to use and their comparative strengths and weaknesses. Third, most of the current SaaS applications and API are built using legacy Cloud 1.0 technologies, thus they don’t have usage based billing support and also some have scalability issues. Fourth, the APIs are centrally managed and multi-tenant by their very nature, making it difficult to manage, measure resource usage in a serverless environment, and bill the tenant. Fifth, each and every API provider has to build a custom platform to monitor and measure serverless resource usage and bill clearing functionality thus increasing the time-to-market. Sixth, there is an extreme shortage of serverless cloud developers thus making life every difficult for both API providers and SaaS app companies. Seventh, there is a scarcity of coherent and comprehensive training material for multi-tenant severless SaaS app and API developers.

Panacloud has started and is leading a social movement called Operation Unicorn to help anyone and everyone become a cloud developer, a startup founder, and participant in the API economy. The focus is on building API-First startups, which will in time become billion dollar companies. This movement is striving to build a community that will not only transform individuals, but societies and countries as well.

[API Economy Presentation for Class](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rjiNSoQV87mgZNCCA5xf__B-OOTTuK7CCriwpesDR90/edit)

